README.md, before:

# Product API

## Project Description

This project is a product and rating management application built using TypeScript and NestJS. The application is designed to allow users to add, manage, and rate products. With a soft delete feature, it enables the management of deleted products without permanently removing data from the database.

## Key Features

- **Product Management**: Users can add, edit, and delete products. Deleted products are retained in the database with a "soft deleted" status.
- **Product Rating**: Users can rate existing products. The application automatically calculates the average rating for each product.
- **User Authentication**: Users can register and log in to the application to manage their products and ratings.
- **Entity Relationships**: The application utilizes relationships between the `User`, `Product`, and `Rating` entities to manage data efficiently.
- **Secure Data Management**: By using `deletedAt` and `deletedBy` columns, the application maintains a record of deleted data and allows for the recovery of deleted items if needed.

## Technologies Used

- **NestJS**: A framework for building efficient and scalable server-side applications. It is built on top of Node.js and uses TypeScript, providing a robust structure for developing applications.
- **TypeORM**: An Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for TypeScript and JavaScript that facilitates interaction with the database.
- **PostgreSQL**: A relational database used to store application data.
- **TypeScript**: A programming language that provides static typing for JavaScript, enhancing code safety and readability.
- **Architecture**: The application follows a modular architecture, which allows for separation of concerns and better organization of code. Each module encapsulates related functionality, making the application easier to maintain and scale.
- **Design Patterns**: NestJS utilizes several design patterns, including:
  - **Dependency Injection**: This pattern allows for better management of dependencies, promoting loose coupling and easier testing.
  - **Module Pattern**: Organizes related components, services, and controllers into cohesive modules, enhancing code organization and reusability.
  - **Controller-Service Pattern**: Separates the handling of HTTP requests (controllers) from the business logic (services), promoting a clean architecture and single responsibility principle.
## Security

The application implements several security measures to protect user data and ensure secure authentication:

- **JWT (JSON Web Tokens)**: Used for secure user authentication. Upon successful login, users receive a JWT that is required for accessing protected routes, ensuring that only authenticated users can perform certain actions.
- **Helmet**: A middleware that helps secure the application by setting various HTTP headers. It protects against common vulnerabilities such as cross-site scripting (XSS) and clickjacking.
- **Rate Limiter**: Implemented to prevent abuse of the API by limiting the number of requests a user can make in a given time frame. This helps mitigate denial-of-service (DoS) attacks and ensures fair usage of resources.
- **CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)**: Configured to control which domains are allowed to access the API. This adds an additional layer of security by preventing unauthorized domains from making requests to the application.

## Installation

- Clone this repository:
  `git clone https://github.com/edysupardi/product-api.git`
- Navigate to the project directory:
  `cd product-api`
- Install dependencies:
  `npm install`
- Configure the database in the `.env` file. You can copy variable from .env.example
- Run the application using docker (please make sure you install docker first on your machine):
  `docker-compose run --build -d`

## Usage

Once the application is running, you can access the API through the provided endpoints. Make sure to use tools like Postman or curl to test the available endpoints.

## Documentation

The API documentation is derived from the Postman collection. It provides detailed information about the available endpoints, request and response formats, and examples of how to use the API. You can import the Postman collection into your Postman application to explore the API interactively.

To access the documentation:
1. Open Postman.
2. Import the provided Postman [Postman Collection](./docs/product-api.postman_collection.json). (Optional [Dev Environment](./docs/product-dev.postman_environment.json))
3. Explore the endpoints and their respective details.


## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to this project, please feel free to create a pull request or open an issue for further discussion.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

Commit message:

fix: doc for db structure

README.md, after:

# Product API

## Project Description

This project is a product and rating management application built using TypeScript and NestJS. The application is designed to allow users to add, manage, and rate products. With a soft delete feature, it enables the management of deleted products without permanently removing data from the database.

## Key Features

- **Product Management**: Users can add, edit, and delete products. Deleted products are retained in the database with a "soft deleted" status.
- **Product Rating**: Users can rate existing products. The application automatically calculates the average rating for each product.
- **User Authentication**: Users can register and log in to the application to manage their products and ratings.
- **Entity Relationships**: The application utilizes relationships between the `User`, `Product`, and `Rating` entities to manage data efficiently.
- **Secure Data Management**: By using `deletedAt` and `deletedBy` columns, the application maintains a record of deleted data and allows for the recovery of deleted items if needed.

## Technologies Used

- **NestJS**: A framework for building efficient and scalable server-side applications. It is built on top of Node.js and uses TypeScript, providing a robust structure for developing applications.
- **TypeORM**: An Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for TypeScript and JavaScript that facilitates interaction with the database.
- **PostgreSQL**: A relational database used to store application data.
- **TypeScript**: A programming language that provides static typing for JavaScript, enhancing code safety and readability.
- **Architecture**: The application follows a modular architecture, which allows for separation of concerns and better organization of code. Each module encapsulates related functionality, making the application easier to maintain and scale.
- **Design Patterns**: NestJS utilizes several design patterns, including:
  - **Dependency Injection**: This pattern allows for better management of dependencies, promoting loose coupling and easier testing.
  - **Module Pattern**: Organizes related components, services, and controllers into cohesive modules, enhancing code organization and reusability.
  - **Controller-Service Pattern**: Separates the handling of HTTP requests (controllers) from the business logic (services), promoting a clean architecture and single responsibility principle.

## Security

The application implements several security measures to protect user data and ensure secure authentication:

- **JWT (JSON Web Tokens)**: Used for secure user authentication. Upon successful login, users receive a JWT that is required for accessing protected routes, ensuring that only authenticated users can perform certain actions.
- **Helmet**: A middleware that helps secure the application by setting various HTTP headers. It protects against common vulnerabilities such as cross-site scripting (XSS) and clickjacking.
- **Rate Limiter**: Implemented to prevent abuse of the API by limiting the number of requests a user can make in a given time frame. This helps mitigate denial-of-service (DoS) attacks and ensures fair usage of resources.
- **CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)**: Configured to control which domains are allowed to access the API. This adds an additional layer of security by preventing unauthorized domains from making requests to the application.

## Installation

- Clone this repository:
  `git clone https://github.com/edysupardi/product-api.git`
- Navigate to the project directory:
  `cd product-api`
- Install dependencies:
  `npm install`
- Configure the database in the `.env` file. You can copy variable from .env.example
- Run the application using docker (please make sure you install docker first on your machine):
  `docker-compose run --build -d`

## Usage

Once the application is running, you can access the API through the provided endpoints. Make sure to use tools like Postman or curl to test the available endpoints.

## Documentation

### Database structure

The database structure is designed to support the application's functionality using PostgreSQL as the relational database management system.
![Database Structure Diagram](./docs/db-structure.png)

### Postman Collection
The API documentation is derived from the Postman collection. It provides detailed information about the available endpoints, request and response formats, and examples of how to use the API. You can import the Postman collection into your Postman application to explore the API interactively.

To access the documentation:
1. Open Postman.
2. Import the provided Postman [Postman Collection](./docs/product-api.postman_collection.json). (Optional [Dev Environment](./docs/product-dev.postman_environment.json))
3. Explore the endpoints and their respective details.


## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to this project, please feel free to create a pull request or open an issue for further discussion.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.
